Hi, this is Arun, I am going to share my thoughts on the Jocko Willink interview about Why Discipline Equals Freedom. 

Jocko Willink feels that everbody wants freedom in which the main two examples are financial freedom and everbody wants a lot of free time.

To get financial freedom, you must have financial discipline and same thing with more free time. If you want to have more free time, you need to have a more disciplined time management schedule and you must have discipline in your life to say no to the things that aren't actually moving you towards whatever goals you have. You must have the discipline to not click on a next YouTube video that springs up after you watch a dumb one that you shouldn't have watched.

When you are sleeping late into the morning, you might think it is a form of freedom but the reality is when you sleep late into the morning, you don't get things done which you were suppose to do aren't done and the next day, you wake up early and get them done not because you want to but because you have to. You will become a slave because you didn't have discipline.

He talks about the book Discipline equals Freedom: Field manual. It's written in a way that normal pros don't write. It is divided into two major sections, section one is called Thoughts and the other is called Action. Thoughts are the reasons that he thinks about, the kind of way he is and why he is. The action section are the actual things that he does in his life like the workouts to how he eats to how he sleeps to how he recovers from injuries to how he actually manage his day and train. That's the way he broken down the sections.

He was running around the woods and take every stick that he finds and think it as a machine gun and he found out that he can actually join and use an actual machine gun and get paid for it.

He says people ask him how to be discipline in life, the step number one is wake up early. When you can get up early before everyone else does or your enemy does (this is in regards to him being a NAVY seal officer) and early in the morning, it is just quiet and you can get things done. Doing physical excercise everyday tunes your mind, puts more oxygen in your brain, it absolutely makes you think more clearly.

Waking up early and working out everyday, if you start with these two cornerstones, and the other thing is figure out what you are going to do during the day. Don't go to bed without a plan of how you are going to handle the next day.

He says, he has a schedule and executes the schedule.

Parts of his day are very structured and parts of his day are very disciplined which gives him freedom in other parts of the day.

He says sometimes people will get discipline time management schedule and they schedule every minute of the day and he doesn't recommend that just like he wouldn't recommend a SEAL operation where your timeline is so tight that there is no room for error because that's not a possibility. You're gonna have errors, things are gonna go wrong, vehicles gonna break, boats gonna break, people get lost, you're gonna take wrong turn etc so you need extra time and it's the same thing with your day. If you schedule 16 hours of your day, you're not gonna hit all your targets but if you schedule your work day and you got an 8 hour work day that you are gonna be in your office and if you schedule 4 or 5 of those hours and you have 3 hours that you are gonna fill in and you're gonna put important things into those as they come up, that is a much better way to be successful with running a time management on your life.

He only schedules hardcore like 4 hours a day and the other hours, he is picking up, getting phone calls and maneuvering things that need to be executed on but what is important is those 4 hours, they get done. That's the difference between finishing writing a book and not finishing writing a book.

When he read a book, he reads about a 1000 words a day and in 30 days, you got 30,000 words and in 60 days, you got 60,000 words and in 90 days, you got 90,000 words and that's a book. That's 3 months and it took you an hour a day.

It's the same thing with physical fitness, you don't get in amazing shape in a short amount of time but you get in amazing shape when you work out day after day after day which when combined will get you in the best shape. That's where discipline comes in on both of those subjects.

If you want to wake up early, you have to start the cycle by waking up early and not by going to sleep early. When you wake up early on the first day after you have decided, you may get a short amount of sleep let's say 4 or 5 hours and you will not be active throughtout the day, however, you will go to bed early that night and wake up early.

You must to have a balance between family time and work time or study time.

If you focus on your family, now you are not performing well at your job, you are not performing well enought to get promoted, you're not making more money and you end up getting fired and you can't provide your family, the financial security for your family. This will impact negatively on your family. 

If you focus on your work all the time, you will lose your family.

You have to find the balance between work time or study time and family time.




